Only 14% of people in Disneyland measles outbreak were unvaccinated, but it's 100% their fault, claims propaganda
Tuesday, April 14, 2015 by: Ethan A. Huff, staff writer
Deadly Fukushima radiation up 50,000% as elevated radiation levels seen across North America
Popular on Facebook
Pin It
(NaturalNews) A new study published in the journal JAMA Pediatrics claims to delineate the source and spread of measles during the widely hyped Disneyland measles outbreak, of course blaming the unvaccinated for this ridiculous non-event. But the data points presented in the study reveal that the vast majority of those who caught measles had previously been vaccinated, and yet the outbreak is still somehow being blamed 100% on the unvaccinated.
According to information from the study presented by California Healthline, as many as 86% of those who caught measles at Disneyland were fully up to date on their MMR vaccinations for measles, mumps and rubella. This means that none of them should have gotten measles, if you believe the official story anyway.
But in the fantasy reality of so-called "herd immunity," 86% just isn't enough to prevent a disease outbreak, or so goes the myth. In order for full protection to be gained, claims the establishment, a 95% vaccination rate is required for vaccines that are 100% effective -- though these numbers often shift between 90% and 99%, or are omitted entirely, depending on the agenda of a particular media report.
"Clearly," maintain the study's authors, "MMR vaccination rates in many of the communities that have been affected by this outbreak fall well below the necessary threshold to sustain herd immunity, thus placing the greater population at risk as well."
Most outbreak victims were vaccinated, but the unvaccinated are to blame?
Ah yes, the infamous herd immunity scapegoat. It's just too convenient for vax-pimping scientists to claim that their precious vaccines don't work because not enough people are getting them. It couldn't be that these vaccines simply don't work at all, as clearly demonstrated by the fact that most of the people affected during disease outbreaks were jabbed in accordance with government guidelines.
No, it must be all those crazy anti-vaxxers spreading measles , even though the unvaccinated typically don't contract measles during outbreaks (and thus don't spread it, since they don't actually have it). In this case, only a very small percentage of those affected hadn't been vaccinated, so to surmise that they somehow triggered the outbreak is an absurd stretch.
More than likely, it was a vaccinated individual who triggered the outbreak as a result of live attenuated viral vaccines (LAV) like MMR, which are known to shed vaccine-type viruses following vaccine administration.
"The public health community is blaming unvaccinated children for the outbreak of measles at Disneyland , but the illnesses could just as easily have occurred due to contact with a recently vaccinated individual," said Sally Fallon Morell, president of the Weston A. Price Foundation (WAPF).
"Evidence indicates that recently vaccinated individuals should be quarantined in order to protect the public."
The jig is up: Vaccines don't work, so give it up already!
Though it would be loathe to admit it, the vaccine mafia is clearly losing major ground in its failing war on natural immunity. No matter how these charlatans try to spin the issue, vaccines don't work if people who get them are still contracting disease, supposedly because other people around them aren't getting vaccinated.
"At best, vaccines boost our defenses only temporarily," explained Shane Ellison from The People's Chemist. "That's because your immune system is programmed to recognize and attack invaders that come through the biological 'front door.' That would be your nose, mouth and eyes. It doesn't work properly when we shove infection into our body with a needle."
Concerning "herd immunity," Ellison adds that it's "nothing more than a silly catch-phrase used to scare and bully parents into vaccinating their kids."
Sources for this article include:
