Was Disneyland measles outbreak caused by recently vaccinated children "shedding" the measles virus?
Tuesday, March 10, 2015 by: Jonathan Benson, staff writer
Deadly Fukushima radiation up 50,000% as elevated radiation levels seen across North America
Popular on Facebook
Pin It
(NaturalNews) Who's the bigger threat when it comes to spreading infectious disease: the vaccinated or the unvaccinated? If you listen to the mainstream media, unvaccinated children are the archetypal lepers of the modern age, a societal scourge responsible for all disease and the only real obstacle to peace on earth.
But if you can wade through all this mindless propaganda, you'll discover that vaccinated children are the real danger, at least when it comes to disease spread. Contrary to popular belief, just because you've been jabbed doesn't mean that you're immortal -- the science shows that live-virus vaccines like MMR (measles, mumps and rubella) actually shed for weeks, and sometimes months, following vaccination.
This means that children who were recently injected with MMR, oral polio vaccine and/or other live attenuated vaccines (LAV) are walking disease-carriers. And no, this isn't some random conspiracy theory spread through one of those mythical Jenny McCarthy chain emails we keep hearing about -- it's a fact that's widely recognized, albeit quietly, throughout the greater medical community.
The esteemed Johns Hopkins Hospital, for instance, warns about vaccine shedding in its official Patient Guide, urging the immunocompromised to "[a]void contact with children who are recently vaccinated." Why? Because the recently vaccinated can, and often do, spread vaccine-derived viruses capable of killing children with weak immune systems.
"Tell friends and family who are sick, or have recently had a live vaccine (such as chicken pox, measles , rubella, intranasal influenza, polio or smallpox) not to visit," explains the guide.
(Note: After this article was written, Johns Hopkins appears to have scrubbed its Patient Guide from the Johns Hopkins Medicine website. It was located at the second link provided in the sources section.)
Many disease outbreaks have occurred among fully vaccinated children, proving that health authorities and the media are lying to the public
Meanwhile, unvaccinated children are being erroneously blamed for putting vaccinated children at risk (but wait, if vaccines really work then why are the vaccinated scared of the unvaccinated?) -- as if a person, just because he hasn't been vaccinated, is automatically walking around with every known disease just waiting to infect the world.
It's all a bunch of nonsense, of course, and those who haven't guzzled down the vaccine Kool-Aid can see right through all the hype. But that isn't stopping the corporate media machine from churning out story after story (after story, ad nauseum) about the "threat" of unvaccinated children being allowed to, gasp, exist alongside the rest of society.
Besides the fact that countless disease outbreaks have occurred in fully vaccinated communities -- and in some cases within populations where more than 95% of individuals were fully vaccinated , which should have activated "herd immunity" status (according to the official story) -- it simply can't be proven that unvaccinated children are responsible for provoking the Disneyland measles outbreak.
"The public health community is blaming unvaccinated children for the outbreak of measles at Disneyland , but the illnesses could just as easily have occurred due to contact with a recently vaccinated individual," said Sally Fallon Morell, president of the Weston A. Price Foundation. "Evidence indicates that recently vaccinated individuals should be quarantined in order to protect the public."
CNBC recently published an article on this issue that cited actual scientific evidence (which is nowhere to be found in any of the pro-vaxxer puff pieces circulating the web and television these days) showing that live-virus vaccines shed, potentially infecting both vaccinated and unvaccinated individuals.
So the next time an "angry as hell" lunatic mother or belligerent, conventionally programmed medical professional screams at you about how unvaccinated children threaten society, claiming "SCIENCE!" as evidence, simply point them to the actual scientific literature and move along -- they're really not worth your time.
Sources:
