The pertussis vaccine is failing, too. 36 37
 
Like measles, in recent years there have been huge increases in reports of B. pertussis whooping cough among children and adults in California and other states and many of those people have been vaccinated. 38 39 That was true for pertussis outbreaks in the U.S. 30 years ago, too. 40 41
 
Now public health officials are finally admitting the truth that many scientists have been publishing for a long time: you can be fully vaccinated for pertussis, get infected and show atypical or no symptoms and spread whooping cough to vaccinated and unvaccinated persons. 42 43 44
 
In fact, Dr. Cherry himself admits that there are millions of undiagnosed B. pertussis whooping cough cases every year in America, 45 even though 95% or more of America’s school children have gotten multiple doses of pertussis containing vaccinations. 46 In 2013, Dr. Cherry wrote, “Neither B. pertussis infection or pertussis vaccination elicit long-lasting immunity. Infection and illness repeatedly occur in all ages throughout life.” 47
 
So much for the myth of pertussis vaccine acquired herd immunity. 48
 
Measles Vaccine Failing
 
It isn’t very scientific to blame pertussis or influenza outbreaks on unvaccinated people. And it isn’t very scientific to blame measles outbreaks on unvaccinated people, either.
 
In some outbreaks of measles in California last year, nearly 20 percent of the people had been vaccinated. 49 The CDC says that 12% of the measles cases associated with Disneyland were vaccinated, some of them with at least two doses of MMR vaccine. 50
 
Measles vaccine acquired herd immunity is a dissolving myth, too. 51 52 53
 
Public health doctors are scrambling to explain leaks in measles vaccine immunity 54 55 and have come up with this lame excuse: they say they just discovered that 1 measles vaccinated adult in 10 is now susceptible to measles because vaccine immunity wears off. 56 They call it “waning immunity.” 57
 
More MMR Shots Coming?
 
Now get ready for the sucker punch: Dr. Cherry told a TV network last week that the solution to waning measles vaccine immunity is to “give additional doses” of MMR vaccine to adults. 58 59
 
That’s right. Let’s just mandate more MMR shots for millions of Americans and make Merck’s stockholders really happy. 60
 
But who is Dr. Cherry kidding? We all know that adults are way too hard to pin down – unless you threaten them with loss of a job or medical care or put them in prison - so I predict that the third MMR shot will more likely target high school students and people trying to get a college education. 61
 
Dr. Cherry’s solution to reported measles cases at Disneyland reminds me of when doctors told parents in 1990 that they didn’t realize one dose of MMR vaccine would fail to provide lifelong immunity after all, so kids are going to have to get a second dose of MMR. 62
 
Inconvenient Scientific Truths About Measles Vaccine
 
The inconvenient scientific truth about measles in Disneyland and around the world is that public health doctors do not know how many vaccinated people can be infected with measles, show few or no symptoms and transmit measles to other people. 63 Government health officials do not conduct rountine active surveillance of vaccinated people to find out if they are experiencing asymptomatic or atypical measles and transmitting it to others.
 
In addition, there are published studies demonstrating that people given live virus measles vaccine can be infected with vaccine strain measles virus and shed vaccine strain measles virus. 64 65 66 Health officials do not conduct routine active surveillance of people getting live MMR vaccine to monitor for vaccine strain measles virus infection, shedding and the potential for transmission.
 
Is It Measles or Something Else?
 
Most doctors and parents don’t know that the CDC warns, “During outbreaks, measles vaccine is administered to help control the outbreak, and in these situations, vaccine reactions may be mistakenly classified as measles cases. A small proportion of measles vaccine recipients experience rash and fever 10–14 days following vaccination. 67
 
Yes, MMR vaccine can cause vaccine strain measles infection that looks just like measles. 68
 
Plus, other common viral infections – like adenovirus infections – can look just like measles with rash, fever and conjunctivitis symptoms 69 70 and be misdiagnosed as measles UNLESS there is expensive RNA lab testing done to confirm that what looks like measles really is wild type measles. 71
 
Plans to Further Damage California Vaccine Exemptions
 
And now for the second sucker punch, at least for families living in California: Dr. Pan, the pediatrician politician who lobbied in 2013 to pass a bill restricting non-medical vaccine exemptions for children to attend school, told one California newspaper last week that he intends to introduce new legislation to do more damage to the ability of parents to weigh the benefits and risks of vaccination and make voluntary vaccine choices for their children. 72
 
Will California health officials take away religious and conscientious belief vaccine exemptions and leave doctors like Dr. Pan and Dr. Cherry in charge of who gets a public education?
 
Using Disneyland to Move the Goalposts
The hype about 51 cases of measles reportedly linked to Disneyland 73 has more to do with covering up vaccine failures and propping up the dissolving myth of vaccine acquired herd immunity than it does about protecting the public health. It has a lot to do with defensive doctors trying to blame a minority of parents who are refusing to place irrational faith in them and their moving goal posts, 74 and are choosing instead to think and act rationally. 75
 
That third MMR shot is coming to America and so is a massive Pharma-led lobby attempt to demonize and punish 76 77 all Americans who defend the human right to exercise informed consent to medical risk-taking, including vaccine risk-taking. 78 The calls to strike down those who do not use every dose of the growing list of government-mandated vaccines, is on a fast track. 79 80 It will include banning the unvaccinated from exercising the right to get a public education, medical care, 81 employment and many other human and civil rights.
 
Americans Have A Choice to Make
 
The battle lines are clearly drawn. Now Americans have a choice to make: will we stand up and fight to protect our human right to make voluntary decisions about which vaccines we buy and use, or will we permit liability free drug companies and government health officials to take that freedom from us? 82
 
Go to NVICAdvocacy.org and learn how you can take action to protect vaccine exemptions in your state. Learn more about the risks and complications of measles and measles vaccine on NVIC.org. And if you or your child have been vaccinated and the vaccine failed to protect you or caused harm, you can make a report to NVIC and share your experience with others on NVIC.org.
 
It’s your health. Your family. Your choice.
 
1 Xia R, Lin RG. Disneyland measles outbreak: infected woman took 2 flights before diagnosis . Los Angeles Times Jan. 13, 2015.
 
2 CDC. U.S. Multi-State Measles Outbreak, December 2014-January 2015 . CDC Health Alert Network Jan. 23, 2015 (2 p.m.ET).
 
