The Measles Vaccine: The Heat is ON

By Cathy Jameson
Show us your shot record, or you don’t get in. 
I wouldn’t be surprised if places like Disneyland will soon enact a permanent “public safety” policy that states that its park goers need to prove their vaccination status before entering the park.  Don’t believe that won’t happen sometime in the near future?  It’s already happened in other places across the country.
Even though 50 states offer one of three vaccine exemptions, school officials play the role of vaccine enforcer.  Claiming a ‘No shots? No school!’ rule, many schools cite vaccines are required for enrollment.  They not only claim that, but they go so far as bully parents demanding that they are required.  That’s not completely true.  Before I took the time to learn that that claim was not true and that I had vaccine options that would not jeopardize my child’s education, I kowtowed to vaccine enforcers.  I let school officials and school nurses railroad me, and I let their policy trump my parental rights.  That happened before I took the time to read the facts myself. 
The fact is my child can attend school without a full shot record.  They can go just about anywhere without vaccines too.  Even to Disney. 
Well, for now at least. 
It’s being reported that Disney is encouraging unvaccinated children to stay away from their parks.  They’re doing that at the same time that they are dismissing employees.  Employees cannot return until they have been medically cleared.  Sure other places – like schools, will require a doctor’s note to return after a brief illness, but those other places don’t typically offer free measles vaccines nor do they test for immunity that Disney is offering to do for its staff. 
 

Photo credit:  screen shot from NBCNews.com
With the Disney measles outbreak continuing to be a top news story, reporting about vaccines have once again reached fever pitch.  Those reports, like the one on NBC News, continue to be heavy on the pro-vaccine side though.  That’s because for too long, the pro-vaccine groups and their media puppets have been allowed to strong arm the public while twisting the truth.  Believing wholeheartedly in vaccines, the entities that are heavily invested in vaccines want us to accept that the vaccines are the only answer, that the vaccinated are the saviors of the world (even when their vaccines fail), and that the unvaccinated are stupid, selfish baby-killers and the reason for the outbreak (even though they’re not). 
I’d be curious to know if those who are blaming the unvaccinated follow the recommended adult vaccine schedule.  I’d also be curious to know if those who are checking on someone else’s vaccine status, like an employer or a school nurse, is ‘up-to-date’ on vaccines as well.  If those who in charge are so sure that the vaccine will prevent and eliminate diseases, including the measles, shouldn’t they be vaccinated too?  Vaccines are supposedly for the public’s best interest.  But how will we, the public, know that anyone is fully vaccinated?  Will we be allowed to ask someone’s vaccine status?  Will shot records adorn the walls of grocery stores, businesses and restaurants similar to how doctors and therapists degrees, certificates and awards adorn the walls of their offices and therapy clinics?  And since the news outlets are so quick to state that vaccines could have prevented the current outbreak, why not require that news reporters and the pro-vaccine spokespeople they feature to flash a pocket-sized version of their shot record credentials showing their vaccine status too?  It sounds ludicrous to think that someone should have to prove that they are fully vaccinated, but with how the vaccines continue to be pushed on the public, I’m afraid that proving one’s vaccine status may very well happen. 
Those who vaccinate won’t have a problem with that.  But those who choose not to vaccinate could. 
Some people do not want to be vaccinated.  Some people, due to health reasons, cannot be vaccinated.  But with how heated the vaccine issue has become, those who are not vaccinated might cave to pressure to vaccinate after all.  Pro-vaccine groups and their supporters would like to see them cave.  That’s because they’d prefer that we all be vaccinated, and vaccinated by force if need be. 
To take away personal health care rights and to insist that everyone be vaccinated shouldn’t be up for discussion.  But it seems that more and more folks are becoming vocal about just that.  Anne Dachel  shares recent interviews of such discussions including speculation for federal vaccine mandates because of what has happened at Disney. 
Being genuinely concerned for the public, for the health and for the welfare of others is fantastic.  But that’s not what’s happening.  What’s happening is that the news outlets and the vaccine industry’s representatives are taking advantage of the Disney measles outbreak for their gain.  They are exploiting what’s happening, they’re dividing the public, and they’re spinning vaccine propaganda all over the place.  It’s a shame because it won’t hurt the vaccine industry or the news outlets.  It’ll only hurt the public. 
The stories coming out of Disney used to be full of magical moments.  Those moments elicited feelings that could fill the entire world with hope.  The stories on the news about Disney that we’re hearing now don’t do that.  Thanks to the over-reporting of misinformation being broadcast, the stories aren’t full of hope.  They’re full of unfounded, illogical and unnecessary fears. 
Cathy Jameson is a Contributing Editor for Age of Autism.